What do different columns in the output of EXPLAIN mean? What possible values can those have? What is the meaning of those values?

Explain is a command which is used by mysql developers to optimize the queries.It analyzes the query and display its output to the user.
Different Fields of Explain Output and their Values

id - it is a sequntial identifier for each select in the query. It is of integer type.

select_type - it gives the type of select statement. Its values can be
  a) SIMPLE - query is simple select without subqueries or JOINS
  b) PRIMARY - select is in outermost query in JOIN
  c) DERIVED - select is a part of another subquery within FORM clause
  d) DEPENDENT SUBQUERY - a subquery which is dependent on outer query
  e) UNCACHABLE SUBQUERY - a subquery which is not cacheable
  f) UNION - select is the second or later statement of a union
  g) DEPENDENT UNION - second or later select of aunion which is dependent on outer query
  h) UNION RESULT - select is a result of a UNION

table - table referred to by the row of output

type - it shows how the mysql joins the tables. possible values are as follows : 
  a) system - the table has only zero or one row
  b) const - the table only has one matching row which is indexed
  c) eq_ref - all parts of an index are used by join and index is PRIMARY KEY
  d) ref - all of the matching rows of indexed column are read for each combination of rows 
           from the previous table.
  e) fulltext - JOIN's uses table's FULLTEXT index
  f) ref_or_null - this is same as ref but contains rows with null values also
  g) index_merge - the indexes used by JOINs to merge tables will be in "Keys" column
  h) unique_subquery - an IN subquery returns only one result from table
  i) index_subquery - IN subquery returns more than one results from table
  j) index - entire index tree is searched to find matching row
  k) all - entire tables are scanned to find matching rows

possible_keys - shows the keys which can be used by MYSQL to find rows from table

key - indicates the actual index used by MYSQL

key_len - indicates the length of index the Query Optimizer choose to use

ref- shows the column or constants which are compared to index named in key column

rows - lists the number of records which were examined to produce the output

Extra - contains information about query optimization plan. values 'Using temporary', 'Using 
        filesort' etc in this columns indicates that the query is not efficient
  a) Distinct – Server is able to perform an optimization where it will stop searching for
      more rows for the current row combination after it has found the first matching row
  b) Not exists – Server is able to do a LEFT JOIN optimization where it will not examine
      more rows in this table for the current row combination after it finds one row that matches the JOIN criteria.
  c) range checked for each record – Server found no good index to use, but checks indexes
      for each row. Slow, but faster than a full table scan.
  d) Using filesort – Server will need to do an extra pass to sort the rows.
  e) Using index – Server is able to return rows directly from the index instead of doing an 
      additional seek to read the actual rows. Generally good news.
  f) Using temporary – Server will need to create a temporary table to hold results. Often 
      occurs with differing GROUP BY and ORDER BY columns.
  g) Using where – Server is using values in the WHERE clause to limit returned rows.